What is leading?
 It is often easier to understand something by first defining what it is not. Leading is not a position, title, or even simple set of practical actions. For far too long, American culture has relegated leading to these things, which has created a largely negative experience and belief about the topic. Moreover, this relegation has perpetuated poor practices in the training, development, and the education of leaders. It has also resulted in the less-than-ideal parameters for promoting and hiring for leadership roles. Now, let’s look at what it is. Leading, or to lead, is best understood as descriptor, one that represents a mindset, attitude, and behaviors that add value to others. 
 
Are there natural born leaders? 
When considering the definition of leading outline previously and the science of epigenetics, one can reasonably conclude that some are born with a predisposition to the mindset, attitude, and the behaviors that add value to others. That considered, the answer is yes, a person can be a “natural born leader.” However, a predisposition to leading does not equate natural maturation. The maturation of leading can be defined as the consistent expression of appropriate and effective fostering of a healthy human-experience, which is the presence of three fundamental and essential human needs, 1) belonging, 2) vulnerability, and 3) shared purpose. 
The human-experience is the most important focus a leader can possess, so it is important to define each component clearly. 
Belonging is two parts, 1) and individual’s sense and the presence of community, and 2) the belief that there is Vulnerability is an individual’s willingness to question, challenge, and share ideas without fear of retribution. Although it is not exclusively psychological safety, it is largely influenced by it. 
Share Purpose is a unified conviction and standard for and of doing. This component of the human experience is both individualized and collective. As individuals, our purpose is largely connected to meaningful productivity. When participating in a community or team, our purpose is less about a single person’s meaningful productivity and more about “collective conquering,” which is an assemblage of individuals’ meaningful productivity that creates synergy and progress. 
 
What qualities hinder someone from being a perfect leader, and what qualities facilitate a good leader?
 Based on the clear definition of leading, there is an immediate issue with the terms “great leader and “good leader” in this question. Again, the term leading is a description of mindset, attitude, and the behaviors that add value to others. Suggesting that leading is good or bad, would be like asserting that there is good joy and bad joy; it just doesn’t make sense. Joy, by its definition, is always positive or good. This is also true about leading, based on our definition. It is always good to add value to others.
The belief that leading can be good and bad is part of the issue with leadership in the U.S.; so naturally, leader-development becomes about effectiveness not an individual’s personal growth. If we can shift our understanding to “I am either leading or not leading, and there is no in between,” then we have unlocked the potential for exceptional progress for moving the needle toward a healthy human-experience in the workforce. 
 
What is the opposite of leading?
Using the stated definition of leading, we can more accurately define the opposite of leading. If one is not leading, what are they? They are neglecting. This answer can be understood best as a spectrum, where leading is the optimal state and neglecting is the pessimal state. 
The spectrum of human-attentiveness from left to right is neglecting, avoiding, managing, guiding, leading. This is the simplest form, with each having element on the spectrum having deep, nuanced attributes. 
 
How do you view those you are leading (a question posed to Adam)
I view those that I lead as unique, brilliant, and valuable additions to the work at hand, and my own learning journey. Connection to each one is a privilege, one that affords me the ability to see myself from another perspective. I genuinely believe that every human has a special and specific value to add to the world, and it is an honor to help them see/discover it. 
 
What is the easiest part of leading?
The easiest part are the associated behaviors, including but not limited to showing up, checking in, touching base, expressing appreciation, empowering, encouraging, making decisions, soliciting input, giving feedback, navigating conflict, etc. 
 
What is the hardest part of leading?
Without question it is accepting blind spots. It is easy to acknowledge that “we have weaknesses,” as our weaknesses are known to us. However, a blind spot is unknown to us, and when it is revealed, it is exceptionally difficult to accept. Blind spots tend to cause feelings of embarrassment, inadequacy, humiliation, foolishness, and more, which activates an instinct to avoid, ignore, and justify. Consequently, accepting blind spots is most likely also accepting that we have and are currently hurting someone(s) in our lives. 
 
What is the first thing that goes through your head when someone asks you a question?
The answer is not absolute, as it would be unreasonable to say that it is always the same thing. However, most often my first thought is related to clarity. Rather than answering a question I thought they asked, I typically desire to clarify that I am hearing the question they intended to ask. So the answer to what goes through my head is “do they mean?” Typically speaking, that thought is quickly followed by “what do they know, think, or believe [about the subject]?”
 
Which is more important when asked a question, sharing information with a lot of details or sharing something vague that provokes questions? 
 Most often, it depends on the question. However, the default response should be fundamentally curious. In a leading role, it is the nature of those being led to ask questions they already have an opinion, belief, or perspective on. Therefore, it is important when leading to not drone on with your opinions, beliefs, or perspective, instead, to state a response concisely and finished with curiosity, which is an invitation to the asker to participate in the answer.
There are caveats, of course, and they are typically rooted in a need or desire for clarity about a previous action, decision, or statement. In these scenarios, it is imperative that the leader offer detail for clarity sake, so that a response does not come across as illusive or ill-motivated.
 
Is it more important to make statement or ask questions as a leader?
 It is immensely more important to ask questions. The most underrated and deficient skill in American leadership today is curiosity. Although questions are not inherently curious, they are a great step toward a more curious attitude and mindset, as they require the leader to put aside their desire and instinct to speak in favor or listening. Questions can be both inquisitive and curious, and the highest value to the human-experience is curious questions. Questions with an inquisitive nature discover facts, whereas, questions with a curious origin generate understanding. An example would be as follows: 
o   Inquisitive question: What kind of car do you drive? 
o   Answer: Jeep. 
§  Explanation: Although the question reveals a fact about a person, that fact doesn’t help you understand that person. 
o   Curious question: What about jeep was appealing to you when you decided to buy?
o   Answer: I really like the outdoors, and jeep is not only known for the outdoors, but they have also better equipped their vehicles for an outdoor lifestyle. 
·      Lastly, questions of an inquisitive nature tend to feel investigative, which can leave a person feeling interrogated. Although curious questions must be well timed, they generally leave someone feeling interesting, which can lead to feeling valued, seen, and heard. 
 
What tone of voice should a leader use when asking questions? 
·      An open tone of voice, which indicates a genuine interest in the answer. 
 
What tone of voice should a leader use when answering questions?
·      A confident tone, packaged in clear language. Leading, as defined previously, requires confidence and clarity. It is human nature to follow or attach oneself to someone with convictions. Speaking with confidence demonstrates conviction; but it is equally important to be transparent when uncertain or unsure. 
 
Are feelings or facts more important when asking questions and making statements?
·      Again, context matters, but the most appropriate and effective method for a healthy human-experience is found in a balance between feelings and facts/evidence. As stated previously, facts offer clarity, and they also are foundational to understanding. When a leader balances that with feelings, it humanizes decisions, and mitigates the sense that followers can have about leaders being inauthentic, disconnected, and solely outcome focused.

